Deployment concept update (#10615)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/deployments.md

This implies that flows defined within interactive REPLs or notebooks are not currently candidates for Prefect deployments. They are still valid flows that will be monitored by the API anytime they are run, but you must bear the responsibility for triggering them.

!!! info "Deployments do not contain code definitions"
    Deployment metadata references code that exists in potentially diverse locations within your environment; this separation of concerns means that your flow code stays within your storage and execution infrastructure and never lives on the Prefect server or database.

    This is the heart of the Prefect hybrid model: there's a boundary between your proprietary assets and the Prefect backend (including [Prefect Cloud](/cloud/)). 

### Scheduling and parametrization

One of the primary motivations for creating deloyments of flows is to remotely _schedule_ and _trigger_ them. 
And just as flows can be called as functions with different input values, so can deployments be triggered or scheduled with different values through the use of parameters.

The five fields here capture the necessary metadata to perform such actions:

> - **`schedule`**: a [schedule object](/concepts/schedules/); most of the convenient interfaces for creating deployments allow users to avoid creating this object themselves. For example, when [updating a deployment schedule in the UI](/concepts/schedules/#creating-schedules-through-the-ui) basic information such as a cron string or interval is all that's required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`schedule`**: a [schedule object](/concepts/schedules/).
Most of the convenient interfaces for creating deployments allow users to avoid creating this object themselves. 
For example, when [updating a deployment schedule in the UI](/concepts/schedules/#creating-schedules-through-the-ui) basic information such as a cron string or interval is all that's required.
```

- **`trigger`** (Cloud-only): triggers allow you to define event-based rules for running a deployment - for more information see [Automations](/concepts/automations/).
- **`parameter_openapi_schema`**: an [OpenAPI compatible schema](https://swagger.io/specification/) that defines the types and defaults for the flow's parameters; this is used by both the UI and the backend to expose options for creating manual runs as well as type validation.
- **`parameters`**: default values of flow parameters that this deployment will pass on each run. These can always be overwritten through a trigger or when manually creating a custom run.

!!! tip "Scheduling is asynchronous and decoupled" 
    Because deployments are nothing more than metadata, runs can be created at anytime
    As we can see, deployments are nothing more than metadata - they do not contain code, but they do reference it. scheduling then...
    note that pausing a schedule, updating your deployment, and other actions reset your auto scheduled runs.

### Versioning and bookkeeping

> Versions, descriptions and tags are essentially omnipresent fields throughout Prefect that can be easy to overlook. However, putting some extra thought into how you use these fields can pay large dividends down the road.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Versions, descriptions, and tags are fields throughout Prefect that can be easy to overlook. 
However, putting some extra thought into how you use these fields can pay large dividends down the road.
```

- **`pull_steps`**: a JSON description of steps that should be performed in order to retrieve flow code or configuration and prepare the runtime environment for workflow execution.

Pull steps allow users to highly decouple their workflow architecture. 
For example, a common use of pull steps is to dynamically pull code from remote filesystems such as GitHub with each run of their deployment.

For more information see [the guide to deploying with a worker](/guides/prefect-deploy/).

## Two approaches to deployments

There are two primary types of deployments within Prefect, differentiated by how much control Prefect has over the infrastructure in which the workflows run.

In one setup, deploying Prefect flows is directly analogous to deploying a webserver - users author their workflows and then start a long-running process (often within a Docker container) that is responsible for managing all of the runs for the associated deployment(s). 

> In the other setup, users do a little extra work to setup a work pool and a base job template that defines how individual flow runs will be submitted to infrastructure. Workers then take these job definitions and submit them to the appropriate infrastructure with each run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the other setup, users do a little extra work to setup a work pool and a base job template that defines how individual flow runs will be submitted to infrastructure. 
Workers then take these job definitions and submit them to the appropriate infrastructure with each run.
```

### Long-lived infrastructure

The simplest way to deploy a Prefect flow is to use [the `serve` method](/concepts/flows/#serving-a-flow) of the `Flow` object or [the `serve` utility](/concepts/flows/#serving-multiple-flows-at-once) for managing multiple flows simultaneously. 

Once you have authored your flow and decided on its deployment settings as described above, all that's left is to run this long-running process in a location of your choosing.
The process will stay in communication with the Prefect API, monitoring for work and submitting each run within an individual subprocess.
Note that because runs are submitted to subprocesses, any external infrastructure configuration will need to be setup beforehand and kept associated with this process.

This approach has many benefits:

- Users are in complete control of their infrastructure, and anywhere the "serve" Python process can run is a suitable deployment environment.
- It is simple to reason about.
- Creating deployments requires a minimal set of decisions.
- Iteration speed is fast.

However, there are a few reasons a user might consider moving to workers and work pools:

> - Workflows that have expensive infrastructure needs will be more costly in this setup due to the long-running process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workflows that have expensive infrastructure needs may be more costly in this setup due to the long-running process.
```

- Workflows with heterogeneous infrastructure needs across runs will be more difficult to configure and schedule.
- Large volumes of deployments can be harder to track.

> - If your internal team structure requires that deployment authors be a different team than the team managing infrastructure, the work pool interface may be preferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your internal team structure requires that deployment authors be members of a different team than the team managing infrastructure, the work pool interface may be preferred.
```

> ### Dynamically provisioned infrastructure

Reviewer 2: Nit but "Dynamically provisioning infrastructure with workers" might be a better title to stress that the entire worker-based model (beyond just work pools) is for this purpose. Not a strong opinion.

> ### Dynamically provisioned infrastructure

Reviewer 3: "Workers" also has the benefit of being a more generally recognized term/model. The only downside is that it doesn't accomodate push work pools, but perhaps I'm over-indexing on that.

> The paradigm of [workers and work pools](/concepts/work-pools/) allows Prefect to take greater control of the infrastructure in which flows runs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Work pools and workers](/concepts/work-pools/) allow Prefect to exercise greater control of the infrastructure in which flows runs. 
```

> This allows you to essentially "scale to zero" when nothing is scheduled to run, as the worker process is lightweight and does not need the same resources that your workflows do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup allows you to essentially "scale to zero" when nothing is scheduled to run, as the worker process is lightweight and does not need the same resources that your workflows do.
```

With this approach:

- You can configure and monitor infrastructure configuration within the Prefect UI.
- Infrastructure is ephemeral and dynamically provisioned.
- Prefect is more infrastructure-aware and therefore collects more event data from your infrastructure by default.
- Highly decoupled setups are possible.

> Of course complexity always has a price, and the worker approach can be more difficult to debug and understand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Of course, complexity always has a price. The worker approach has more components and may be more difficult to debug and understand.
```

!!! note "You don't have to commit to one approach"
    There is nothing that requires you to use one and only one of these approaches for your deployments - you can mix and match as your use cases evolve. 

>     For example, you might use workers for your expensive machine learning pipelines, but use the serve mechanics for smaller more frequent file-processing pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, you might use workers for your expensive machine learning pipelines, but use the serve mechanics for smaller, more frequent file-processing pipelines.
```

---
# Deployments

> Deployments are server-side representations of flows. They store the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration including _when_, _where_ and _how_ a workflow should run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployments are server-side representations of flows. They store the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration including _when_, _where_, and _how_ a workflow should run.
```

Reviewer: I believe we use the oxford comma everywhere else and i n style guide, so adding here.

---
# Deployments

> Deployments are server-side representations of flows that contain the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deployments are server-side representations of flows. Deployments contain the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. 
```

> Deployments are server-side representations of flows. Deployments contain the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deployments are server-side representations of flows. They contain the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. 
```

> Deployments elevate workflows from functions that you call manually to API-managed entities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deployments elevate workflows from functions that you must call manually to API-managed entities that can be triggered remotely.
```

> Deployments achieve this by storing all of the relevant metadata for _when_, _where_ and _how_ a workflow should run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```python
class Deployment:
    """
    Structure of the schema defining a deployment
    """

    # required defining data
    name: str 
    flow_id: UUID
    entrypoint: str
    path: str = None

    # workflow scheduling and parametrization
    parameters: dict = None
    parameter_openapi_schema: dict = None
    schedule: Schedule = None
    is_schedule_active: bool = True
    trigger: Trigger = None

    # metadata for bookkeeping
    version: str = None
    description: str = None
    tags: list = None

    # worker-specific fields
    work_pool_name: str = None
    work_queue_name: str = None
    infra_overrides: dict = None
    pull_steps: dict = None
``` 

All methods for creating Prefect deployments are interfaces for populating this schema. Let's look at each section in turn.

### Required data 

Deployments universally require both a `name` and a reference to an underlying `Flow`. 
In almost all instances of deployment creation, users do not need to concern themselves with the `flow_id` as most interfaces will only need the flow's name. 
Note that the deployment name is not required to be unique across all deployments but is required to be unique for a given flow ID.

> As a consequence you will often see references to the deployment's unique identifying name `{FLOW_NAME}/{DEPLOYMENT_NAME}`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a consequence, you will often see references to the deployment's unique identifying name `{FLOW_NAME}/{DEPLOYMENT_NAME}`. 
```

- **`entrypoint`**: the _entrypoint_ of a deployment is a relative reference to a function decorated as a flow that exists on some filesystem. It is always specified relative to the `path`. Entrypoints use Python's standard path-to-object syntax (e.g., `path/to/file.py:function_name` or simply `path:object`).

The entrypoint must reference the same flow as the flow ID. 

Note that Prefect requires that deployments reference flows defined _within Python files_. 
Flows defined within interactive REPLs or notebooks cannot currently be deployed as such. They are still valid flows that will be monitored by the API and observable in the UI whenever they are run, but Prefect cannot trigger them.

!!! info "Deployments do not contain code definitions"
    Deployment metadata references code that exists in potentially diverse locations within your environment; this separation of concerns means that your flow code stays within your storage and execution infrastructure and never lives on the Prefect server or database.

>     This is the heart of the Prefect hybrid model: there's a boundary between your proprietary assets and the Prefect backend (including [Prefect Cloud](/cloud/)). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This is the heart of the Prefect hybrid model: there's a boundary between your proprietary assets, such as your flow code, and the Prefect backend (including [Prefect Cloud](/cloud/)). 
```

- **`schedule`**: a [schedule object](/concepts/schedules/).
Most of the convenient interfaces for creating deployments allow users to avoid creating this object themselves. 
For example, when [updating a deployment schedule in the UI](/concepts/schedules/#creating-schedules-through-the-ui) basic information such as a cron string or interval is all that's required.
- **`trigger`** (Cloud-only): triggers allow you to define event-based rules for running a deployment. 
For more information see [Automations](/concepts/automations/).
- **`parameter_openapi_schema`**: an [OpenAPI compatible schema](https://swagger.io/specification/) that defines the types and defaults for the flow's parameters.
This is used by both the UI and the backend to expose options for creating manual runs as well as type validation.
- **`parameters`**: default values of flow parameters that this deployment will pass on each run. 
These can be overwritten through a trigger or when manually creating a custom run.

!!! tip "Scheduling is asynchronous and decoupled" 
    Because deployments are nothing more than metadata, runs can be created at anytime.

>     note that pausing a schedule, updating your deployment, and other actions reset your auto scheduled runs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Note that pausing a schedule, updating your deployment, and other actions reset your auto scheduled runs.
```

>     Note that pausing a schedule, updating your deployment, and other actions reset your auto scheduled runs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Note that pausing a schedule, updating your deployment, and other actions reset your auto-scheduled runs.
```

### Versioning and bookkeeping

> Versions, descriptions and tags are omnipresent fields throughout Prefect that can be easy to overlook. However, putting some extra thought into how you use these fields can pay large dividends down the road.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Versions, descriptions and tags are omnipresent fields throughout Prefect that can be easy to overlook. However, putting some extra thought into how you use these fields can pay dividends down the road.
```

- **`tags`**: tags are a mechanism for grouping related work together across a diverse set of objects. Tags set on a deployment will be inherited by that deployment's flow runs. These tags can then be used to filter what runs are displayed on the primary UI dashboard, allowing you to customize different views into your work. In addition, in Prefect Cloud you can easily find objects through searching by tag.

All of these bits of metadata can be leveraged to great effect by injecting them into the processes that Prefect is orchestrating. For example you can use both run ID and versions to organize files that you produce from your workflows, or by associating your flow run's tags with the metadata of a job it orchestrates. 
This metadata is available during execution through [Prefect runtime](/guides/runtime-context/).

!!! tip "Everything has a version"
    Deployments aren't the only entity in Prefect with a version attached; both flows and tasks also have versions that can be set through their respective decorators. These versions will be sent to the API anytime the flow or task is run and thereby allow you to audit your changes across all levels.

### Workers and Work Pools

> [Workers and work pools](/concepts/work-pools/) are an advanced deployment pattern that allow you to dynamically provision infrastructure per-workflow run. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Workers and work pools](/concepts/work-pools/) are an advanced deployment pattern that allow you to dynamically provision infrastructure for each flow run. 
```

In addition, the work pool job template interface allows users to create and govern opinionated interfaces to their workflow infrastructure.

> To do this, a deployment using workers needs to consider the following fields:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do this, a deployment using workers needs to evaluate the following fields:
```

Work pool types mirror infrastructure types and therefore the decision here affects the options available for the other fields.
- **`work_queue_name`**: if you are using work queues to either manage priority or concurrency, you can associate a deployment with a specific queue within a work pool using this field.
- **`infra_overrides`**: often called `job_variables` within various interfaces, this field allows deployment authors to customize whatever infrastructure options have been exposed on this work pool. 
This field is often used for things such as Docker image names, Kubernetes annotations and limits, and environment variables.
- **`pull_steps`**: a JSON description of steps that should be performed to retrieve flow code or configuration and prepare the runtime environment for workflow execution.

Pull steps allow users to highly decouple their workflow architecture. 
For example, a common use of pull steps is to dynamically pull code from remote filesystems such as GitHub with each run of their deployment.

For more information see [the guide to deploying with a worker](/guides/prefect-deploy/).

## Two approaches to deployments

> There are two primary types of deployments within Prefect, differentiated by how much control Prefect has over the infrastructure in which the workflows run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two primary ways to deploy flows with Prefect, differentiated by how much control Prefect has over the infrastructure in which the flows run.
```

In one setup, deploying Prefect flows is analogous to deploying a webserver - users author their workflows and then start a long-running process (often within a Docker container) that is responsible for managing all of the runs for the associated deployment(s). 

> In the other setup, users do a little extra work to setup a work pool and a base job template that defines how individual flow runs will be submitted to infrastructure. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the other setup, you do a little extra up-front work to setup a work pool and a base job template that defines how individual flow runs will be submitted to infrastructure. 
```

The simplest way to deploy a Prefect flow is to use [the `serve` method](/concepts/flows/#serving-a-flow) of the `Flow` object or [the `serve` utility](/concepts/flows/#serving-multiple-flows-at-once) for managing multiple flows simultaneously. 

Once you have authored your flow and decided on its deployment settings as described above, all that's left is to run this long-running process in a location of your choosing.
The process will stay in communication with the Prefect API, monitoring for work and submitting each run within an individual subprocess.
Note that because runs are submitted to subprocesses, any external infrastructure configuration will need to be setup beforehand and kept associated with this process.

This approach has many benefits:

- Users are in complete control of their infrastructure, and anywhere the "serve" Python process can run is a suitable deployment environment.
- It is simple to reason about.
- Creating deployments requires a minimal set of decisions.
- Iteration speed is fast.

However, there are a few reasons you might consider running flows on dynamically provisioned infrastructure with workers and work pools instead:

> - Workflows that have expensive infrastructure needs may be more costly in this setup due to the long-running process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Flows that have expensive infrastructure needs may be more costly in this setup due to the long-running process.
```

> - Workflows with heterogeneous infrastructure needs across runs will be more difficult to configure and schedule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Flows with heterogeneous infrastructure needs across runs will be more difficult to configure and schedule.
```

- Large volumes of deployments can be harder to track.
- If your internal team structure requires that deployment authors be members of a different team than the team managing infrastructure, the work pool interface may be preferred.

### Dynamically provisioning infrastructure with workers

> [Work pools and workers](/concepts/work-pools/) allow Prefect to exercise greater control of the infrastructure in which flows runs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Work pools and workers](/concepts/work-pools/) allow Prefect to exercise greater control of the infrastructure on which flows run. 
```

> This setup allows you to essentially "scale to zero" when nothing is scheduled to run, as the worker process is lightweight and does not need the same resources that your workflows do.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This setup allows you to essentially "scale to zero" when nothing is running, as the worker process is lightweight and does not need the same resources that your workflows do.
```

With this approach:

- You can configure and monitor infrastructure configuration within the Prefect UI.
- Infrastructure is ephemeral and dynamically provisioned.
- Prefect is more infrastructure-aware and therefore collects more event data from your infrastructure by default.
- Highly decoupled setups are possible.

Of course, complexity always has a price. The worker approach has more components and may be more difficult to debug and understand.

!!! note "You don't have to commit to one approach"

>     There is nothing that requires you to use one and only one of these approaches for your deployments - you can mix and match as your use cases evolve. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    There is nothing that requires you to use one and only one of these approaches for your deployments - you can mix and match as your needs evolve. 
```

>     There is nothing that requires you to use one and only one of these approaches for your deployments. You can mix and match based on the needs of each flow. Further, you can change the deployment approach for a particular flow as its needs evolve.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    You are not required to use only one of these approaches for your deployments. You can mix and match approaches based on the needs of each flow. Further, you can change the deployment approach for a particular flow as its needs evolve.
```

- **`schedule`**: a [schedule object](/concepts/schedules/).
Most of the convenient interfaces for creating deployments allow users to avoid creating this object themselves. 
For example, when [updating a deployment schedule in the UI](/concepts/schedules/#creating-schedules-through-the-ui) basic information such as a cron string or interval is all that's required.
- **`trigger`** (Cloud-only): triggers allow you to define event-based rules for running a deployment. 
For more information see [Automations](/concepts/automations/).
- **`parameter_openapi_schema`**: an [OpenAPI compatible schema](https://swagger.io/specification/) that defines the types and defaults for the flow's parameters.
This is used by both the UI and the backend to expose options for creating manual runs as well as type validation.
- **`parameters`**: default values of flow parameters that this deployment will pass on each run. 
These can be overwritten through a trigger or when manually creating a custom run.

!!! tip "Scheduling is asynchronous and decoupled" 
    Because deployments are nothing more than metadata, runs can be created at anytime.

>     As we can see, deployments are nothing more than metadata - they do not contain code, but they do reference it. scheduling then...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
